---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

**What are your expectations of the class? (special question, first time only)**

Throughout my rendezvous with computer science, I have usually dealt with backend applications and software. I wish to improve my knowledge and skill of frontend development, learn how to create interactive websites and gain exposure to new technologies. That is the reason I decided to take Software Engineering since it offers a view into real workplace workflows and products, as well as teaching me how to integrate current packages, technologies (such as Travis CI for testing) into my code to make my development time more efficient. 

**What did you do this past week?**

This past week has been hectic. I moved into my new apartment which has taken up a chunk of my time to set up. I also spent a chunk of time continuing to learn about convolutional neural networks and their use in Computer Vision, something I am highly interested to learn more about. During the summer, I decided to take a class on machine learning and ended up supplementing it by reading books on deep learning. I have dealt with computer vision previously in projects and wanted to learn more about building it from scratch, which led me to reading papers and online notes to understand it better.

**What's in your way?**

Laziness and inefficiency while working gets in my way. I have a bunch of targets to achieve such as completing a deep learning paper I am reading but I get distracted or lazy and end up not completing the required task at the right moment, which leads me to have a greater workload in the coming days.

**What will you do next week?**

I have an interview coming up with the image understanding team at Microsoft, for which I plan to continue to study and enhance my current knowledge of image classifiers. Also plan to start on my assignments for the various classes I am taking this semester.

**What's my experience of the class?**

I enjoyed the first couple classes and like Prof. Downing’s engaging style of teaching. I will form a better and more comprehensive viewpoint once I experience more classes.

**What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?**

I found this really cool tool this week called customvision.ai (https://customvision.ai/) that allows users to create an image classifier by adding a dataset of images (provided by the user) to the website of a particular thing (eg images of pepsi cans if we wish to get our classifier to learn what pepsi cans looks like), which then adds the class to a pre-trained model. And Voila! You now get a model that can accurately identify the item you just fed it, without you having to do any work.
